---
title: Developer
order: 100
path: /developer
---

# Hello

Moi! My name is Michael Utz. I moved to Finland from the United States with my
wife in February of 2018. I'm passionate about web development, and I find
myself supremely lucky to be working in a field that is so naturally interesting
to me.

# My Developer Journey

## Power User

I've been tinkering around on the web since people were arguing about whether or
not it was _too soon(!)_ to use CSS3 pseudo-selectors. Being an early adopter by
nature, I threw myself in the deep-end—quirks mode be damned! :smile:

In college, I studied music—focusing mostly on audio production and composition.
For my classes, I used a music notation software program called Sibelius, not
realizing that one day I'd literally live a kilometer from the Sibelius
monument.

## Professional Instructor

The college I went to used it's competitor, Finale. I found Finale to be an
inelegant solution to the problem of writing music on the computer, even though
it was the industry leader. So, I saved up money for Sibelius, bought it, and
taught myself.

I got my homework done SO much faster than my classmates, and had a better time
doing it! I even had time left over to help some of my classmates learn
Sibelius. So, after I graduated, the chair of the music department invited me to
teach a course on Sibelius as an adjunct faculty member.

I say all that to demonstrate a few key things:

1. I've always been passionate about good software design,
2. I've always been fascinated with the intersection of beauty and technology,
   and
3. It sounds cool to say you were a college lecturer. (You're always supposed to
   have three items on these kinds of lists, right?) :)

## Maker

Since I got my first computer in high school, I've spent an _inordinate_ amount
of my free time making things. At first it was mostly dinky websites,
spectacularly intricate Excel spreadsheets, amateurish symphonies, custom
Myspace profiles, or over-processed Photoshop images.

But after college I really started to dig into PHP and JavaScript. I wrote
numerous terrible WordPress themes, got familiar with the jQuery API back when
that was cool, and was pretty content with my tinkering. Until I got my first
job at a real software company.

## Professional Amateur

I was working in the marketing department as a hybrid content writer / front-end
developer. When I started rewriting the company's website, the Lead Software
Architect started looking over my shoulder. Rightfully, he was horrified. :)

But, his mentorship and guidance helped me grow past my hacky, immature approach
to writing software. He gave me books on Clean Code and Design Patterns. He
forced me to learn a bit about Java so I could understand why my carelessness in
PHP and JavaScript was just shooting myself in the foot. And he was generally
patient and understanding.

## The Big Time

Since then, I've worked as a web developer, but I am honing my
skills as a full-stack developer with Node. I am passionate about learning new
technologies and expanding my skillbase.
